.TH SHELL 1
.SH NAME
    shell - ZenithOS interactive command shell

.SH DESCRIPTION
    The ZenithOS shell is a simple command interpreter that runs as
    the first userspace process. It provides basic file inspection,
    process management, networking, and documentation access.

.SH COMMANDS

.SS help
    Display a list of available commands.

.SS info
    Show the OS name, version, and syscall API version number.

.SS man <topic>
    Open a manual page in the fullscreen pager. See man(1).

.SS ls [dir]
    List files in the current directory, or in the specified
    directory. When a directory argument is given, the output
    shows only the entries inside that directory with the
    directory prefix stripped.
    Examples: ls, ls man

.SS cd [dir]
    Change the working directory. With no argument or with /,
    returns to the root (0:/). Use cd .. to go up one level.
    The shell prompt reflects the current directory.
    Examples: cd man, cd .., cd

.SS cat <file>
    Print the contents of a file to the terminal. The file
    path is resolved relative to the current directory.
    Example: cat hello.elf

.SS run <file>
    Spawn a new process from an ELF binary and wait for it to
    exit. The file path is resolved relative to the current
    directory. The shell blocks until the child process terminates.
    Example: run hello.elf

.SS ping <ip>
    Send 4 ICMP echo requests to the given IP address and display
    round-trip times. Timeout is 3 seconds per request.
    Example: ping 10.0.2.2

.SS date
    Display the current date and time in UTC.

.SS uptime
    Display the system uptime in minutes, seconds, and milliseconds.

.SS clear
    Clear the terminal screen.

.SS exit
    Terminate the shell process.

.SH INPUT
    The shell reads input character by character using SYS_GETCHAR.
    Backspace is supported. Lines are limited to 255 characters.
    There is no command history or tab completion.

.SH SEE ALSO
    man(1), intro(1), syscalls(2)
